
42 EvalHub

    Home
    Common Core
    Specs

cpp09
Scale for project CPP Module 09
You should evaluate 1 student in this team
Introduction

- Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive
throughout the evaluation process. The well-being of the community
depends on it.

- Identify with the person (or the group) evaluated the eventual
dysfunctions of the work. Take the time to discuss
and debate the problems you have identified.

- You must consider that there might be some difference in how your
peers might have understood the project's instructions and the
scope of its functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade
him/her as honestly as possible. The pedagogy is valid only and
only if peer-evaluation is conducted seriously.
Guidelines

- Only grade the work that is in the student or group's
GiT repository.

- Double-check that the GiT repository belongs to the student
or the group. Ensure that the work is for the relevant project
and also check that "git clone" is used in an empty folder.

- Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you
and make you evaluate something other than the content of the
official repository.

- To avoid any surprises, carefully check that both the evaluating
and the evaluated students have reviewed the possible scripts used
to facilitate the grading.

- If the evaluating student has not completed that particular
project yet, it is mandatory for this student to read the
entire subject prior to starting the defence.

- Use the flags available on this scale to signal an empty repository,
non-functioning program, a norm error, cheating etc. In these cases,
the grading is over and the final grade is 0 (or -42 in case of
cheating). However, with the exception of cheating, you are
encouraged to continue to discuss your work (even if you have not
finished it) in order to identify any issues that may have caused
this failure and avoid repeating the same mistake in the future.

- Remember that for the duration of the defence, no segfault,
no other unexpected, premature, uncontrolled or unexpected
termination of the program, else the final grade is 0. Use the
appropriate flag.
You should never have to edit any file except the configuration file if it exists.
If you want to edit a file, take the time to explicit the reasons with the
evaluated student and make sure both of you are okay with this.

- You must also verify the absence of memory leaks. Any memory allocated on the heap must
be properly freed before the end of execution.
You are allowed to use any of the different tools available on the computer, such as
leaks, valgrind, or e_fence. In case of memory leaks, tick the appropriate flag.
Attachments
input.csv
subject.pdf
cpp_09.tgz
Preliminary tests

If cheating is suspected, the evaluation stops here. Use the "Cheat" flag to report it. Take this decision calmly, wisely, and please, use this button with caution.
Prerequisites

The code must compile with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
Don't forget this project has to follow the C++98 standard. Thus,
C++11 (and later) are NOT expected.
The purpose of this module is to use the STL. Then, using the
containers is authorized.

Any of these means you must not grade the exercise in question:

    A function is implemented in a header file (except for template functions).
    A Makefile compiles without the required flags and/or another compiler than c++.

Any of these means that you must flag the project with "Forbidden
Function":

    Use of a "C" function (*alloc, *printf, free).
    Use of a function not allowed in the exercise guidelines.
    Use of an external library, or features from versions other than C++98.

Yes
No
Exercise 00: Bitcoin Exchange

For this first exercise, you have to find a makefile with the usual compilation rules and the files requested in the subject.
Code review

Check that a makefile is present with the usual compilation rules.

Check in the code that the program uses at least one container.

The person being evaluated must explain why they chose to use this
container and not another?

If not, the evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Error handle

You must be able to use an empty file or a file with errors
(a basic example exists in the subject). The program must not stop
its execution before having performed the operations on the whole
file passed as argument.

You can use a wrong date.

You can enter a value greater than 1000 or less than 0.

If there is any problem during the execution then the evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Main usage

You must now use the "input.csv" file located at the top of this page.

You can modify this file with the values you want.

You have to run the program with the input.csv file as parameter.

Please compare some dates manually with the specified value.

If the date does not exist in the database, the program will have to use the
nearest lower date.

Yes
No
Exercise 01: Reverse Polish Notation

For this second exercise, you have to find a makefile with the usual compilation rules and the files requested in the subject.
Code review

Check that a makefile is present with the usual compilation rules.

Check in the code that the program uses at least one container.

The person being evaluated must explain why they chose to
use this container and not another?

If not, the evaluation stops here.

If the container chosen here is present in the first exercise
then the evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Main usage

Check that the program runs correctly using different formulas of your choice.

The program is not required to handle expressions with parenthesis or decimals
number.

If there is any problem during the execution then the evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Usage advanced

Check that the program runs correctly using different formulas of your choice.

Here is some tests:

8 9 * 9 - 9 - 9 - 4 - 1 +
	> Result: 42

	9 8 * 4 * 4 / 2 + 9 - 8 - 8 - 1 - 6 -
	> Result: 42

	1 2 * 2 / 2 + 5 * 6 - 1 3 * - 4 5 * * 8 /
	> Result: 15


You can use the examples in the topic if you don't know which formula to use.

If there is any problem during the execution then the evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Exercise 02: PmergeMe

As usual, there has to be enough tests to prove the program works as expected. If there isn't, do not grade this exercise. If any non-interface class is not in orthodox canonical class form, do not grade this exercise.
Code review

Check that a makefile is included with the usual compilation rules rules.

Check in the code that the program uses at least two containers.

If not, the evaluation stops here.

The person being evaluated must explain why they chose to use these containers
and not another?

Check in the code that the merge-insert sort algorithm is present and
is used for each container. The Ford-Johnson algorithm must be used.
A brief explanation is expected. In case of doubt, the evaluation stops here.

If one of the containers chosen here is included in one of the previous
exercises then the evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Main usage

You can now manually check that the program works correctly by using between
5 and 10 different positive integers of your choice as program arguments.

If this first test works and gives a sorted sequence of numbers you can continue.
If not, the evaluation stops now.

Now you have to check this operation by using the following command as an
argument to the program:

For linux:

`shuf -i 1-1000 -n 3000 | tr "\n" " " `


For OSX:

`jot -r 3000 1 1000 | tr '\n' ' '`


If the command works correctly, the person being evaluated should be able to
explain the difference in time used for each container selected.

If there are any problems during the execution and/or explanation then the
evaluation stops here.

Yes
No
Outdated ? Contribute to update


C++ - Module 09
STL
Summary:
This document contains the exercises of Module 09 from C++ modules.
Version: 3.1
Contents
I Introduction 2
II General rules 3
III Module-specific rules 6
IV AI Instructions 7
V Exercise 00: Bitcoin Exchange 9
VI Exercise 01: Reverse Polish Notation 11
VII Exercise 02: PmergeMe 13
VIII Submission and peer-evaluation 16
1
Chapter I
Introduction
C++ is a general-purpose programming language created by Bjarne Stroustrup as an ex-
tension of the C programming language, or "C with Classes" (source: Wikipedia).
The goal of these modules is to introduce you to Object-Oriented Programming.
This will be the starting point of your C++ journey. Many languages are recommended
to learn OOP. We decided to choose C++ since it’s derived from your old friend C.
Because this is a complex language, and in order to keep things simple, your code will
comply with the C++98 standard.
We are aware modern C++ is way different in a lot of aspects. So if you want to
become a proficient C++ developer, it’s up to you to go further after the 42 Common
Core!
2
Chapter II
General rules
Compiling
• Compile your code with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
• Your code should still compile if you add the flag -std=c++98
Formatting and naming conventions
• The exercise directories will be named this way: ex00, ex01, ... , exn
• Name your files, classes, functions, member functions and attributes as required in
the guidelines.
• Write class names in UpperCamelCase format. Files containing class code will
always be named according to the class name. For instance:
ClassName.hpp/ClassName.h, ClassName.cpp, or ClassName.tpp. Then, if you
have a header file containing the definition of a class "BrickWall" standing for a
brick wall, its name will be BrickWall.hpp.
• Unless specified otherwise, every output message must end with a newline character
and be displayed to the standard output.
• Goodbye Norminette! No coding style is enforced in the C++ modules. You can
follow your favorite one. But keep in mind that code your peer evaluators can’t
understand is code they can’t grade. Do your best to write clean and readable code.
Allowed/Forbidden
You are not coding in C anymore. Time to C++! Therefore:
• You are allowed to use almost everything from the standard library. Thus, instead
of sticking to what you already know, it would be smart to use the C++-ish versions
of the C functions you are used to as much as possible.
• However, you can’t use any other external library. It means C++11 (and derived
forms) and Boost libraries are forbidden. The following functions are forbidden
too: *printf(), *alloc() and free(). If you use them, your grade will be 0 and
that’s it.
3
C++ - Module 09 STL
• Note that unless explicitly stated otherwise, the using namespace <ns_name> and
friend keywords are forbidden. Otherwise, your grade will be -42.
• You are allowed to use the STL only in Modules 08 and 09. That means:
no Containers (vector/list/map, and so forth) and no Algorithms (anything that
requires including the <algorithm> header) until then. Otherwise, your grade will
be -42.
A few design requirements
• Memory leakage occurs in C++ too. When you allocate memory (by using the new
keyword), you must avoid memory leaks.
• From Module 02 to Module 09, your classes must be designed in the Orthodox
Canonical Form, except when explicitly stated otherwise.
• Any function implementation put in a header file (except for function templates)
means 0 to the exercise.
• You should be able to use each of your headers independently from others. Thus,
they must include all the dependencies they need. However, you must avoid the
problem of double inclusion by adding include guards. Otherwise, your grade will
be 0.
Read me
• You can add some additional files if you need to (i.e., to split your code). As these
assignments are not verified by a program, feel free to do so as long as you turn in
the mandatory files.
• Sometimes, the guidelines of an exercise look short but the examples can show
requirements that are not explicitly written in the instructions.
• Read each module completely before starting! Really, do it.
• By Odin, by Thor! Use your brain!!!
Regarding the Makefile for C++ projects, the same rules as in C apply
(see the Norm chapter about the Makefile).
You will have to implement a lot of classes. This can seem tedious,
unless you’re able to script your favorite text editor.
4
C++ - Module 09 STL
You are given a certain amount of freedom to complete the exercises.
However, follow the mandatory rules and don’t be lazy. You would
miss a lot of useful information! Do not hesitate to read about
theoretical concepts.
5
Chapter III
Module-specific rules
It is mandatory to use the standard containers to perform each exercise in this module.
Once a container is used you cannot use it for the rest of the module.
It is advisable to read the subject in its entirety before doing the
exercises.
You must use at least one container for each exercise with the
exception of exercise 02 which requires the use of two containers.
You must submit a Makefile for each program which will compile your source files
to the required output with the flags -Wall, -Wextra and -Werror.
You must use c++, and your Makefile must not relink.
Your Makefile must at least contain the rules $(NAME), all, clean, fclean and re.
6
Chapter IV
AI Instructions
● Context
This project is designed to help you discover the fundamental building blocks of your 42
training.
To properly anchor key knowledge and skills, it’s essential to adopt a thoughtful approach
to using AI tools and support.
True foundational learning requires genuine intellectual effort — through challenge, rep-
etition, and peer-learning exchanges.
For a more complete overview of our stance on AI — as a learning tool, as part of the 42
training, and as an expectation in the job market — please refer to the dedicated FAQ
on the intranet.
● Main message
☛ Build strong foundations without shortcuts.
☛ Really develop tech & power skills.
☛ Experience real peer-learning, start learning how to learn and solve new problems.
☛ The learning journey is more important than the result.
☛ Learn about the risks associated with AI, and develop effective control practices
and countermeasures to avoid common pitfalls.
● Learner rules:
• You should apply reasoning to your assigned tasks, especially before turning to AI.
7
C++ - Module 09 STL
• You should not ask for direct answers to the AI.
• You should learn about 42 global approach on AI.
● Phase outcomes:
Within this foundational phase, you will get the following outcomes:
• Get proper tech and coding foundations.
• Know why and how AI can be dangerous during this phase.
● Comments and example:
• Yes, we know AI exists — and yes, it can solve your projects. But you’re here to
learn, not to prove that AI has learned. Don’t waste your time (or ours) just to
demonstrate that AI can solve the given problem.
• Learning at 42 isn’t about knowing the answer — it’s about developing the ability
to find one. AI gives you the answer directly, but that prevents you from building
your own reasoning. And reasoning takes time, effort, and involves failure. The
path to success is not supposed to be easy.
• Keep in mind that during exams, AI is not available — no internet, no smartphones,
etc. You’ll quickly realise if you’ve relied too heavily on AI in your learning process.
• Peer learning exposes you to different ideas and approaches, improving your inter-
personal skills and your ability to think divergently. That’s far more valuable than
just chatting with a bot. So don’t be shy — talk, ask questions, and learn together!
• Yes, AI will be part of the curriculum — both as a learning tool and as a topic
in itself. You’ll even have the chance to build your own AI software. In order to
learn more about our crescendo approach you’ll go through in the documentation
available on the intranet.
✓ Good practice:
I’m stuck on a new concept. I ask someone nearby how they approached it. We talk
for 10 minutes — and suddenly it clicks. I get it.
✗ Bad practice:
I secretly use AI, copy some code that looks right. During peer evaluation, I can’t
explain anything. I fail. During the exam — no AI — I’m stuck again. I fail.
8
Chapter V
Exercise 00: Bitcoin Exchange
Exercise: 00
Bitcoin Exchange
Directory: ex00/
Files to Submit: Makefile, main.cpp, BitcoinExchange.{cpp, hpp}
Forbidden: None
You have to create a program which outputs the value of a certain amount of bitcoin
on a certain date.
This program must use a database in csv format which will represent bitcoin price
over time. This database is provided with this subject.
The program will take as input a second database, storing the different prices/dates
to evaluate.
Your program must respect these rules:
• The program name is btc.
• Your program must take a file as an argument.
• Each line in this file must use the following format: "date | value".
• A valid date will always be in the following format: Year-Month-Day.
• A valid value must be either a float or a positive integer, between 0 and 1000.
You must use at least one container in your code to validate this
exercise. You should handle possible errors with an appropriate
error message.
9
C++ - Module 09 STL
Here is an example of an input.txt file:
$> head input.txt
date | value
2011-01-03 | 3
2011-01-03 | 2
2011-01-03 | 1
2011-01-03 | 1.2
2011-01-09 | 1
2012-01-11 | -1
2001-42-42
2012-01-11 | 1
2012-01-11 | 2147483648
$>
Your program will use the value in your input file.
Your program should display on the standard output the result of the value multiplied
by the exchange rate according to the date indicated in your database.
If the date used in the input does not exist in your DB then you
must use the closest date contained in your DB. Be careful to use the
lower date and not the upper one.
The following is an example of the program’s use.
$> ./btc
Error: could not open file.
$> ./btc input.txt
2011-01-03 => 3 = 0.9
2011-01-03 => 2 = 0.6
2011-01-03 => 1 = 0.3
2011-01-03 => 1.2 = 0.36
2011-01-09 => 1 = 0.32
Error: not a positive number.
Error: bad input => 2001-42-42
2012-01-11 => 1 = 7.1
Error: too large a number.
$>
Warning: The container(s) you use to validate this exercise will no
longer be usable for the rest of this module.
10
Chapter VI
Exercise 01: Reverse Polish Notation
Exercise: 01
RPN
Directory: ex01/
Files to Submit: Makefile, main.cpp, RPN.{cpp, hpp}
Forbidden: None
You must create a program with these constraints:
• The program name is RPN.
• Your program must take an inverted Polish mathematical expression as an argu-
ment.
• The numbers used in this operation and passed as arguments will always be less
than 10. The calculation itself but also the result do not take into account this rule.
• Your program must process this expression and output the correct result on the
standard output.
• If an error occurs during the execution of the program an error message should be
displayed on the standard error.
• Your program must be able to handle operations with these tokens: "+ - / *".
You must use at least one container in your code to validate this
exercise.
11
C++ - Module 09 STL
You don’t need to handle brackets or decimal numbers.
Here is an example of standard usage:
$> ./RPN "8 9 * 9 - 9 - 9 - 4 - 1 +"
42
$> ./RPN "7 7 * 7 -"
42
$> ./RPN "1 2 * 2 / 2 * 2 4 - +"
0
$> ./RPN "(1 + 1)"
Error
$>
Warning: The container(s) you used in the previous exercise are
forbidden here. The container(s) you used to validate this exercise
will not be usable for the rest of this module.
12
Chapter VII
Exercise 02: PmergeMe
Exercise: 02
PmergeMe
Directory: ex02/
Files to Submit: Makefile, main.cpp, PmergeMe.{cpp, hpp}
Forbidden: None
You must create a program with these constraints:
• The name of the program is PmergeMe.
• Your program must be able to use a positive integer sequence as an argument.
• Your program must use the merge-insert sort algorithm to sort the positive integer
sequence.
To clarify, yes, you need to use the Ford-Johnson algorithm.
(source: Art Of Computer Programming, Vol.3. Merge Insertion,
Page 184.)
• If an error occurs during program execution, an error message should be displayed
on the standard error.
You must use at least two different containers in your code to
validate this exercise. Your program must be able to handle at
least 3000 different integers.
13
C++ - Module 09 STL
It is strongly advised to implement your algorithm for each container
and thus to avoid using a generic function.
Here are some additional guidelines on the information you should display line by line
on the standard output:
• On the first line you must display an explicit text followed by the unsorted positive
integer sequence.
• On the second line you must display an explicit text followed by the sorted positive
integer sequence.
• On the third line, you must display an explicit message indicating the time taken
by your algorithm, specifying the first container used to sort the positive integer
sequence.
• On the last line you must display an explicit text indicating the time used by
your algorithm by specifying the second container used to sort the positive integer
sequence.
The format for the display of the time used to carry out your sorting
is free but the precision chosen must allow to clearly see the
difference between the two containers used.
Here is an example of standard use:
$> ./PmergeMe 3 5 9 7 4
Before: 3 5 9 7 4
After: 3 4 5 7 9
Time to process a range of 5 elements with std::[..] : 0.00031 us
Time to process a range of 5 elements with std::[..] : 0.00014 us
$> ./PmergeMe `shuf -i 1-100000 -n 3000 | tr "\n" " "`
Before: 141 79 526 321 [...]
After: 79 141 321 526 [...]
Time to process a range of 3000 elements with std::[..] : 62.14389 us
Time to process a range of 3000 elements with std::[..] : 69.27212 us
$> ./PmergeMe "-1" "2"
Error
$> # For OSX USER:
$> ./PmergeMe `jot -r 3000 1 100000 | tr '\n' ' '`
[...]
$>
The indication of the time is deliberately strange in this example.
Of course you have to indicate the time used to perform all your
operations, both the sorting part and the data management part.
14
C++ - Module 09 STL
Warning: The container(s) you used in the previous exercises are
forbidden here.
The management of errors related to duplicates is left to your
discretion.
15
Chapter VIII
Submission and peer-evaluation
Turn in your assignment in your Git repository as usual. Only the work inside your repos-
itory will be evaluated during the defense. Don’t hesitate to double check the names of
your folders and files to ensure they are correct.
During the evaluation, a brief modification of the project may occasionally be re-
quested. This could involve a minor behavior change, a few lines of code to write or
rewrite, or an easy-to-add feature.
While this step may not be applicable to every project, you must be prepared for it
if it is mentioned in the evaluation guidelines.
This step is meant to verify your actual understanding of a specific part of the project.
The modification can be performed in any development environment you choose (e.g.,
your usual setup), and it should be feasible within a few minutes — unless a specific
timeframe is defined as part of the evaluation.
You can, for example, be asked to make a small update to a function or script, modify a
display, or adjust a data structure to store new information, etc.
The details (scope, target, etc.) will be specified in the evaluation guidelines and may
vary from one evaluation to another for the same project.
16